---
layout: post
title:  Nested Understanding
date:   2018-09-05 21:18:27 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---
There are brilliant programmers and brilliant communicators, but how many people can be both?

We are 6 weeks in and already I am already struggling to communicate what I’m doing to the people I love. I tried to explain the first app I built to my sister last week. After several minutes she finally had to interrupt me.

>Rosa, no words you have said so far mean anything to me. What are you talking about? What is “the command line"? ~my sister

I assume this will happen more as I learn more code. This is how it will go:


### I will think I am having a conversation with someone. They will be polite and smile at me. Finally I will realize that I have been babbling nonsense at them for the last twenty minutes and now they don’t feel like talking to me anymore. I will feel guilty and shuffle off, utterly alone.


It’s funny though, I feel like that’s someone’s dream. Is that someone’s dream? I think it is. I think some people like to go over other peoples’ heads. It makes them feel “smart.” It makes them feel special.

I am not one of those people. I like to be understood. I feel sad when I am unable to convey what I am trying to convey.

So, this is my experiment. I want to be able to communicate with non-tech people. But I don’t want to work too hard to do that. So, I need to build a mental function that will do it for me.

This function will iterate through my experiences and return my previous levels of understanding, ones that I existed in before I started learning to code. Once I’m in the level which matches the level of the party I am communicating with, I can begin conveying the correct data to them.  

```js
let theirUnderstandingLevel

fetch(`https://collective-consciousness/their-brain-codes`)
	.then(res => res.json())
	.then(data => theirUnderstandingLevel = data)

function matchUnderstandingLevel()=>{
	fetch(`https://collective-consciousness/my-brain-codes`)
	.then(res => res.json())
	.then(data => {
		 data.forEach(understanding) {
			if(understanding.level === theirUnderstandingLevel){
			console.log(`we’re good`)
			return letterToGrandma
			}else{
			console.log(`I’m a d-bag.`)
            return null
            }
          }  
      })
}
```

Great! Lets do it. Oh wait. That was all nonsense. Dangit.

Wait. Was it nonsense?

```ruby
const letterToGrandma = [

"Dear Grandma,
  I’m not sure how much you know about coding, but that’s what I’m studying right now, so I thought I’d tell you a bit about it.
  Basically I’m learning how to write out directions for a computer to follow. I can write simple requests, similar to what you’d type into a calculator like 'Dear computer, please add these numbers and show the result on your screen.'
  Or I can write more complicated requests like 'Dear computer, please take this picture of my grandma and save it with the place and date. That way I can always look at it and know where and when it was taken.'
	If you're interested, next time we see each other I could show you how to write some code. At it's most basic, code is really simple. For example, in the programming “language” Ruby, if I want the computer to display the word “Grandma” on the screen for me, I would type `puts “Grandma”`   
  Anyhow I hope you’re doing well. See you in December!

  Love,

  Rosa"
]
```

Yeah. I think it was.

Wait, was it? Only partially. I'm trying to use coding logic to make my brain do something that doesn't come naturally(yet). I'm trying to encode better communication and deeper empathy into the way I explain the things I've learned.

This attempt actually feels a lot like learning Ruby for the first time. There is some logic behind such a quest, but because I don't fully understand what datatypes I'm talking about, it seems confusing.

Right? What kind of data is a human memory? How does it change when added to an emotional state? Can it be measured without mutation, since each time you recall a memory you are creating a new memory(the memory of remembering the memory)?

### What I'm trying to say is this:
As I spend more time writing and thinking about code, the logic, and also some of the syntax is bleeding into the rest of my life. How I understand and communicate with the outside world is changing, and I'm afraid this means it might be more difficult to find common ground with people who don't share the same understanding.  

This blog is an attempt to remind myself not to forget. I don't want to forget the human languages I knew before I learned to code. I don't want to forget how strange and different the world of technology seemed to me. I don't want to forget how complicated it was to understand things that now seem intuitive.

In my mind, to be exceptional programmers, we've got to remember that not everyone speaks our language(s). We have to always keep our experiences and past selves close. That way, we can tap into the version of self that has the best understanding for the current situation.    
