---
layout: post
title:  Job-seeking, corporations, tech, and the vague fear that everything is bad
date:   2019-01-03
categories: jekyll update
---
 Today, it's easy to want to rant. Corporate power is out of control, the speed of technology is almost unfathomable, and the average citizen feels powerless to make a difference. All these fears emerge. What if AI gets really advanced and kills or enslaves us? What if privacy doesn't exist anymore? What if I'm being advertised to and milked for every cent every waking moment of every day? What if I feel so powerless and alienated in this hyperactive, corporate, positivity-obsessed society that I've stopped caring?

 To me, technological developments aren't troubling. What is troubling is people. The people who see life as an opportunity to gather power and make money. The idea that those people will hire other people to create technologies that reflect the way they see the world. The idea that with mentality the environment will become unsustainable and all the people without money or social utility will be abandoned by the rest of humanity.

 At the moment theres the sense that the powerful value status and personal comfort above all else. Wealthy people want more money and a sense of safety in their tiny, resource-rich communities. They are willing to prioritize this stability over being kind to the rest of humanity, especially the weak, and over keeping the planet healthy. They form organizations that exacerbate the worlds problems under the guise of trying to solve them.

 #### This sense does not bode well for a healthy perspective as a job-seeker.

 My engineering bootcamp classmates and I have flung our Santa-sacks of debt on our shoulders and begun walking across the digital wasteland to apply for jobs as software engineers. We cram algorithms. We try to show employers that we can design beautiful responsive web pages, successfully connect databases to external APIs, and to fit in with their culture of innovation and unlimited-snacking. But in many of us, there is a growing sense of unease.

 Getting a job is not a speedy process for most of us. It is exhausting and scary being unemployed and trying to project the sense of stability and confidence that employers seek in new talent. Then in addition there is that larger, more existential fear that perhaps you shouldn't have this job. Perhaps this company shouldn't even exist. Perhaps the best thing for humanity is to give up meat and find a nice cave in the forest to read in.

 I've learned that the best way to generate more energy and pull yourself out of these fearful states is to take a shower and see if you can change your perspective. Programmatic thinking can be useful. Start looking at job-search challenges (like failed code challenges, existential angst, and a desire not to write emails) in the way you might view errors in an application your are writing.

>You thought that keyword would work in the way you expected, but it didn't. Perhaps you forgot you were using Python instead of Ruby, or it's JS, but the browser you're using doesn't support ES6. Maybe you typed it wrong. Maybe you typed it in the wrong place. Maybe your computer is slow and the program just needs more time to compile. Maybe you have been coding for 12 hours and need to step away for a bit. 
 
 Main takeaway, there are many, many opportunities for errors. Doesn't mean you suck at coding. Doesn't mean you suck at life.

#### There is always at least one reason why something isn't working. 

With a job-search for a bootcamp graduate it could be that it's just objectively difficult given the volume of job-seeking people with your same skill-level relative to the amount of entry-level positions. The error could be your attitude, your ability to relate to people, or your nervousness during tech interviews. It could be that you just haven't spent enough time searching, or that you're searching in the wrong places.

 Whatever it is, you can figure it out. And make it better. I believe in you. And when you figure it out, you can let someone else going through the same thing in on the secret. And maybe it will be less painful for them.    
